If FAISS still causes segmentation faults, you might want to double-check how much memory is being consumed when handling embeddings. FAISS and transformers models can be memory-intensive, and using smaller batches for encoding (batch_size = 1 as in your code) is a good idea.
If FAISS is still disabled or giving issues, consider testing the document retrieval flow without FAISS first to ensure the encoding pipeline works. Then gradually reintroduce FAISS.

2. Dimension:
What it is: The dimension refers to the number of features or components in each embedding vector generated by the model. In the case of transformer models like LegalBERT, the embedding dimension is the size of the vector that represents each document or query after it is passed through the model.
Example: For LegalBERT, the embedding dimension is typically 768, which means every document or query is converted into a vector with 768 components.
Why it's important: The dimension size defines the length of the embedding vectors. Larger dimensions can capture more information, but they also make operations (like search and indexing in FAISS) more computationally expensive.
Key Differences:
Batch Size: Refers to the number of inputs processed at once.
Dimension: Refers to the length of the vector that represents each input.
In summary:

Batch is how many documents you are processing at one time.
Dimension is the size of the vector (e.g., 768) that represents each individual document or query.

________

what does thsi tell us

amiyasekhar@Amiyas-MBP-2 HybridRAGKronicle % python3 HybridRAG.py
/opt/homebrew/lib/python3.12/site-packages/transformers/tokenization_utils_base.py:1601: FutureWarning: clean_up_tokenization_spaces was not set. It will be set to True by default. This behavior will be depracted in transformers v4.45, and will be then set to False by default. For more details check this issue: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/31884
  warnings.warn(
Available memory: 49588.62 MB
Estimated max number of embeddings before crash: 11848375
Before encoding documents - Memory usage: 770.23 MB
zsh: segmentation fault  python3 HybridRAG.py
amiyasekhar@Amiyas-MBP-2 HybridRAGKronicle %
ChatGPT said:

ChatGPT
The output and segmentation fault suggest that while your system has sufficient available memory, the issue may not simply be about available memory but possibly how it's being managed during the embedding and processing steps. Here's what we can infer from the message:

Key Observations:
Available Memory:
The system reports 49,588.62 MB (around 49 GB) of available memory, which is a large amount.
This means the system itself has sufficient RAM for most tasks you might perform, including embedding a large number of documents.
Estimated Max Number of Embeddings:
The estimate (11,848,375 embeddings) is based on the available memory and the assumption of 30% overhead.
This means that, theoretically, your system should be able to handle a significant number of embeddings before running out of memory.
Before Encoding Documents - Memory Usage:
Before the actual embedding process starts, your program is already using 770.23 MB of memory, which seems fairly normal for system processes and other running applications.
Segmentation Fault (zsh: segmentation fault):
The segmentation fault occurs during or after the embedding step. This suggests that something unexpected happens during memory allocation or processing within the embedding step.
Given that you have ample memory, the segmentation fault might not be because of an outright lack of memory but could be due to other factors such as:
Memory fragmentation: The system may not have contiguous blocks of memory available for large embeddings.
Torch or FAISS library issues: Some versions of these libraries can have bugs that cause memory errors or inefficient memory management.
Exceeding system limits: Some systems limit the amount of memory a single process can use, even if more memory is available.
Potential Causes:
Torch or FAISS Memory Handling: If the embeddings are being stored as large tensors or arrays, the system might be running into issues handling them all at once.
Batch Processing: You mentioned that you don't want to use batches, but without batching, you're processing all documents at once. This could lead to large memory spikes, which might cause a segmentation fault if the memory request is larger than available in one go.
Memory Fragmentation: While the system has enough total memory, large contiguous blocks of memory might not be available for the entire operation, leading to a segmentation fault.
Next Steps:
Enable Batching: Even though you don't prefer batching, you might want to try it for memory efficiency. Processing smaller batches of documents at a time can reduce memory spikes and prevent segmentation faults.
Update Libraries: Ensure you are using the latest versions of PyTorch, FAISS, and transformers. Sometimes segmentation faults are caused by bugs in older versions of libraries.
Memory Limits: Check if your system imposes memory limits on individual processes. On macOS, you can use ulimit -a to view limits for processes. Increasing memory limits may help.
Debug Mode: Run the script in a debugger like gdb to pinpoint exactly where the segmentation fault occurs. This might give more insight into whether it's a memory allocation issue or something else within the libraries.
Reduce Embedding Size: Consider reducing the size of the embeddings you're working with (e.g., using smaller models or truncating text inputs) to reduce memory usage.
Would you like to try any of these suggestions and see if it resolves the issue?